

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

[ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People ](https://www.cdc.gov/)

Search ____

Submit __

[Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology](../index.html)

Section Navigation

[ CDC Home ](https://www.cdc.gov/)

  * [Facebook](../../../../api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/facebook/offerf526.html?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Findex.htm&title=CDC%20Works%2024/7&description=As%20the%20nation%27s%20health%20protection%20agency,%20CDC%20saves%20lives%20and%20protects%20people%20from%20health,%20safety,%20and%20security%20threats.&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/homepage/images/centers-for-disease-control-and-prevention.png "Share to Facebook")
  * [Twitter](../../../../api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/twitter/offerf526.html?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Findex.htm&title=CDC%20Works%2024/7&description=As%20the%20nation%27s%20health%20protection%20agency,%20CDC%20saves%20lives%20and%20protects%20people%20from%20health,%20safety,%20and%20security%20threats.&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/homepage/images/centers-for-disease-control-and-prevention.png "Share to Twitter")
  * [LinkedIn](../../../../api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/linkedin/offerf526.html?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Findex.htm&title=CDC%20Works%2024/7&description=As%20the%20nation%27s%20health%20protection%20agency,%20CDC%20saves%20lives%20and%20protects%20people%20from%20health,%20safety,%20and%20security%20threats.&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/homepage/images/centers-for-disease-control-and-prevention.png "Share to LinkedIn")
  * [Syndicate](https://tools.cdc.gov/medialibrary/index.aspx#/sharecontent/https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Findex.htm "Embed this Page")

# Prion and Public Health Office

Minus

Related Pages

The Prion and Public Health Office within DHCPP fulfills CDC’s
responsibilities as the lead agency for monitoring the occurrence of human
prion diseases in the United States. The office coordinates CDC’s activities
and programs related to prion diseases as well as to select neurological
diseases and syndromes of unknown etiology.  
[Prion diseases](https://www.cdc.gov/prions/index.html), or transmissible
spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), are a family of rare progressive
neurodegenerative disorders that affect both humans and animals. They are
distinguished by long incubation periods, characteristic spongiform changes
associated with neuronal loss, and a failure to induce inflammatory response.

The causative agent of TSEs is believed to be a prion. A prion is an abnormal,
transmissible agent that is able to induce abnormal folding of normal cellular
prion proteins in the brain, leading to brain damage and the characteristics
signs and symptoms of the disease. Prion diseases are usually rapidly
progressive and always fatal.

Prion Diseases include:

  * [CJD (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, classic)](https://www.cdc.gov/prions/cjd/index.html)
  * [vCJD (variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease)](https://www.cdc.gov/prions/vcjd/index.html)
  * [BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease)](https://www.cdc.gov/prions/bse/index.html)
  * [CWD (chronic wasting disease)](https://www.cdc.gov/prions/cwd/index.html)

Activities include:

  * Monitoring and studying human prion diseases
  * Consulting with clinicians, health departments, federal agencies, and other relevant organizations
  * Providing support during epidemiological investigations
  * Facilitating the study of brain autopsies for diagnosed and suspected cases of prion disease

[![Prion Public Health office
thumbnail](https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/prion_public/images/prion-public-
health-
office-508.jpg?_=71164)](https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/prion_public/pdfs/prions-
public-health-office.pdf)

[Download pdf icon[PDF – 2
pages]](https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/prion_public/pdfs/prions-public-
health-office.pdf)

Page last reviewed: November 8, 2021

Content source: [Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention](http://www.cdc.gov/), [National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic
Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)](../../index-2.html), [Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)](../index.html)

home[DHCPP](../index.html)

  * [About DHCPP](../about.html)plus icon
    * [Diseases and Specialty Areas](../diseases-specialty-areas.html)
    * [High Containment Laboratories at CDC – Fifty Years of Excellence](../hcl-50/high-containment-laboratories.html)
  * [Office of the Director](../office_director/index.html)
  * [Prion and Public Health Office](index.html)
  * [Bacterial Special Pathogens Branch](../bacterial_special/index.html)plus icon
    * [Laboratory Submissions](../bacterial_special/labsubmission.html)plus icon
      * [Special Bacteriology Reference Laboratory](../bacterial_special/special_lab.html)
      * [Zoonoses and Select Agent Laboratory](../bacterial_special/zoonoses_lab.html)
  * [Chronic Viral Diseases Branch](../chronic_viral/index.html)
  * [Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch](../infectious_disease/index.html)
  * [Poxvirus and Rabies Branch](../poxvirus_rabies/index.html)
  * [Viral Special Pathogens Branch](../vspb/index.html)plus icon
    * [Diseases](../vspb/diseases.html)
    * [Specimen Submissions](../vspb/specimens.html)
    * [Recent Publications](../vspb/resources.html)

Related Resources

  * [NCEZID](../../index-2.html)
  * [About NCEZID](../../about-ncezid.html)
  * [Director](../../director-ncezid.html)
  * [Organizational Chart](../../org-ncezid.html)

  * [About CDC](https://www.cdc.gov/about/default.htm)
  * [Contact Us](https://www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/index.html)
  * [800-232-4636](tel:8002324636)

[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/CDC) [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CDCgov)
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/CDCgov/)
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/centers-for-disease-control-and-
prevention) [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/c/cdc/)
[Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/cdcgov/)
[Snapchat](https://www.snapchat.com/add/cdcgov)

CONTACT CDC

[Contact Us](https://www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/index.html)

Call 800-232-4636

[Email Us](https://www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/index.html)

ABOUT CDC

  * [About CDC](https://www.cdc.gov/about/default.htm)
  * [Jobs](https://jobs.cdc.gov/)
  * [Funding](https://www.cdc.gov/funding)

POLICIES

  * [Accessibility](https://www.cdc.gov/other/accessibility.html)
  * [External Links](https://www.cdc.gov/Other/disclaimer.html)
  * [Privacy](https://www.cdc.gov/other/privacy.html)
  * [Policies](https://www.cdc.gov/Other/policies.html)
  * [No Fear Act](https://www.cdc.gov/oeeowe/nofearact/)
  * [FOIA](https://www.cdc.gov/od/foia)
  * [OIG](https://oig.hhs.gov/)
  * [Nondiscrimination](https://www.cdc.gov/other/nondiscrimination.html)
  * [Vulnerability Disclosure Policy](https://www.hhs.gov/vulnerability-disclosure-policy/index.html)

CONNECT WITH US

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/CDC)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CDCgov)
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/CDCgov/)
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/centers-for-disease-control-and-prevention)

  * [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/c/cdc/)
  * [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/cdcgov/)
  * [Snapchat](https://www.snapchat.com/add/cdcgov)
  * [Email](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/dcs/RequestForm.aspx)

LANGUAGES

  * [Español](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Spanish "Spanish")
  * [繁體中文](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Chinese "Chinese")
  * [Tiếng Việt](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Vietnamese "Vietnamese")
  * [한국어](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Korean "Korean")
  * [Tagalog](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Tagalog "Tagalog")
  * [Русский](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Russian "Russian")
  * [العربية](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Arabic "Arabic")
  * [Kreyòl Ayisyen](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Haitian "Haitian")
  * [Français](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#French "French")
  * [Polski](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Polish "Polish")
  * [Português](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Portuguese "Portuguese")
  * [Italiano](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Italian "Italian")
  * [Deutsch](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#German "German")
  * [日本語](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Japanese "Japanese")
  * [فارسی](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#Farsi "Farsi")
  * [English](https://www.cdc.gov/other/language-assistance.html#English "English")

  * [U.S. Department of Health & Human Services](https://www.hhs.gov/)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.cdc.gov/other/accessibility.html)
  * [External Links](https://www.cdc.gov/Other/disclaimer.html)
  * [Privacy](https://www.cdc.gov/other/privacy.html)
  * [Policies](https://www.cdc.gov/Other/policies.html)
  * [No Fear Act](https://www.cdc.gov/oeeowe/nofearact/)
  * [FOIA](https://www.cdc.gov/od/foia)
  * [Nondiscrimination](https://www.cdc.gov/other/nondiscrimination.html)
  * [OIG](https://oig.hhs.gov/)
  * [Vulnerability Disclosure Policy](https://www.hhs.gov/vulnerability-disclosure-policy/index.html)
  * [USA.gov](https://www.usa.gov/)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification / Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.

For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see [Website
Disclaimers](https://www.cdc.gov/Other/disclaimer.html).

Cancel Continue

